---
layout: ../../layouts/MarkdownPostLayout.astro
title: 'About Me'
pubDate: 2024-08-25
description: 'A brief summary of my Destiny 2 journey.'
tags: ["Personal"]
---
Years before I started playing the game, I was already super interested in it. I watched playthroughs of Destiny 1 on Youtube, and loved the idea of the loot chase. I had never played a game like it before, but combining RNG loot mechanics with first person shooter gameplay seemed like a lot of fun to me. I was so eager to try it that I ended up playing Warframe, a game that's often been compared to both Destiny games, just because they sounded similar and Warframe was free.

I started playing Destiny 2 after Forsaken was released, when it was offered for free on the Blizzard launcher. Back then, I didn't have a community, so I played alone. I enjoyed the gameplay, but it always felt like there was something missing. Turns out, there was: the expansions. When I finally bought the first three expansions, I was blown away by how much content I had been missing out on, and that gave me the motivation to keep playing for a long time. It wasn't until Shadowkeep that I stopped playing entirely, mainly because I didn't want to buy the expansion. It turns out that this was the perfect time to stop. I skipped the first two years of Destiny 2, possibly the worst years in terms of gameplay and content, and over a year from season 8 to season 12, during which content was incredibly sparse and the game seemed to be running out of creativity. 

When I finally returned, it was in season 12, with the release of Beyond Light. But I was coming back to more than just a single expansion: I had missed out on a lot of stuff that had just been moved into the content vault, where it remains to this day. I never got a chance to try Crown of Sorrow or the Leviathan raid lairs, which is something I still regret. I also came back to a bunch of new gameplay systems like the reworked armor stats and gear sunsetting, so it really felt like a different game. A lot of the activities I used to like were gone, and my old armor and weapons were all obsolete. I think that was part of why I finally felt the need to get into raiding. Nothing else in the game was super interesting to me, especially because content that I would've considered new had all been deleted. I was also partially motivated when I saw an extremely cool looking gun in collections (Heritage), which I learned was from the new Deepstone Crypt raid. I had complained to a friend about being too afraid to attempt raids, since my previous attempts felt extremely tough and I never knew what was going on. He talked me into trying it, and I'm glad I listened. 

After learning how to do Deepstoen Crypt, I became a lot more confident and started doing more raids, even attempting Vault of Glass on contest mode. I wasn't able to complete it, but it gave me the motivation to keep practicing and getting better. Before then, there were no master raids, so completing raids on normal difficulty was about as hard as content could be. But attempting contest made me realize how much I still had to learn, and by the time Vow of the Disciple was released with Witch Queen, I was ready to take on the challenge. In retrospect, I wasn't really that great of a player yet, and I only succeeded during contest because of Bungie's generous extension to 48 hours, but at the time I was very proud of myself. 

The start of my true "get good" journey began shortly after King's Fall was released. I already knew raids could be beaten with two or three people, but it wasn't until now that I felt confident enough to try it. My attempts started with trio Rhulk and trio Oryx, which I did just for the sticker on my raid report. Eventually I met someone that I ended up completing multiple duo Oryx clears with across many seasons, as well as duo Nezarec, Atheon, and Sanctified Mind. I also completed trio flawless King's Fall, which would be my greatest achievement for a long time. I took contest Root of Nightmares very seriously and completed it in a relatively short time, although I wasn't satisfied with my performance. I was considerably more regretful that I couldn't go back and clear it again with my clan while contest mode was still up. After that, I completed trio flawless Vault of Glass and Garden of Salvation, but ironically couldn't do the same for Root of Nightmares. Then Crota's End came around and reminded me that contest was not to be taken lightly. Root of Nightmares was the first raid that I earnestly prepared for, so seeing it toppled so quickly made me underestimate the difficulty of future raids. As a result, I attempted Crota's End with a questionable team and barely finished challenge mode after hopping from group to group. I took this as a sign that I needed to improve for the next raid, so I pushed myself to do the hardest individual challenges I had ever attempted. Soloing master dungeons was something I had tried earlier and deemed impossible, but with some practice and the help of Season of Solar, I successfully completed Warlord's Ruin and Duality on master, and barely failed to do the same for Spire of the Watcher. After that, I completed my greatest feat in Destiny 2: solo Nezarec. It was by far the hardest thing I ever did, and completing it was incredibly satisfying.

Then Salvation's Edge was released, and I died of cringe.