---
layout: ../../layouts/MarkdownPostLayout.astro
title: "Legendary Primary Perks and the Death of Outlaw/Kill Clip"
pubDate: 2024-09-17
description: 'Discussing how the most desirable perks on primary weapons have changed over the years, and the slow death of reload perks.'
tags: ["Discussion", "Sandbox"]
---
From the very beginning of Destiny 2, we had weapons with the famous Outlaw/Kill Clip and Outlaw/Rampage combo that were dominant in the meta, especially during the double primary era. For those that don't know, Outlaw is a perk that provides bonus reload speed on a precision kill, Kill Clip grants bonus damage if you reload after a kill, and Rampage grants a stacking damage bonus with each kill. Because there were no random rolls, the question of which weapon to choose was really simple. There wasn't much room for individual preference or customization with perk combinations. Midnight coup was particularly popular because it was a hand cannon with Outlaw/Rampage, so much so that it was reintroduced in the BRAVE arsenal.

With the release of Forsaken, random rolls returned to the game along with special ammo weapons, but people quickly realized that the best primaries in the game were still ones with the classic combo or a slight variation of it. In future seasons we received Rapid Hit and Feeding Frenzy, two reload perks that were practically outright superior to Outlaw. Rapid Hit required precision hits instead of kills, which meant you could get that reload bonus even on bulky targets, and it also gave additional stability. Feeding Frenzy, when it was released, gave stacking reload speed on any kill, with even one kill providing a bonus close to Outlaw's. Already, powercreep was pushing Outlaw out of the top tier, although its competition was simply better versions of itself. Reload perks still dominated the third column, while the fourth column remained steady with Rampage and Kill Clip as the top perks.

It's hard to say when the meta started to shift after this. You can argue that the first time this formula was changed up as early as Season 6, with the introduction of Multikill Clip, but that was never much of a shake-up. Yes, it was another good perk to add to the arsenal, but the primary perk meta was still the same: Reload + Damage, though perhaps in a different skin. 

The first perk that I think *really* changed up the game was the introduction of Frenzy. It was massively underrated in Season 13, and although Bungie has nerfed it since then, it's still extremely powerful, easily among the best perks in the game's history. For the first time ever, there was a perk that combined reload speed and damage, along with the easiest activation condition of all time: playing the game. Since the perk didn't require a kill, it was an obvious option for hard content like Grandmaster Nightfalls where kills are harder to get, but it was also a great choice for general play. As late as Witch Queen, Frenzy was a fantastic option and found on quite a few weapons, often next to its partner in crime, Subsistence, in the third and fourth column. While Frenzy itself didn't necessarily offer a unique experience compared to other damage perks (it was just two perks rolled into one), it pushed the meta one step away from the old Outlaw/Kill Clip god rolls, and made room for a new set of perks to take over.

Season 17 introduced Incandescent, an ad clear perk that remains extremely popular to this day. My opinion on it aside, this perk was the first innovation on the "weapon deals more damage" DNA that all previous perks had. Incandescent applied scorch to surrounding enemies on a kill, and upon accumulating enough scorch stacks, they would ignite and explode, dealing massive damage. It also had added synergy with the hot new Solar 3.0 subclasses, which added to its overwhelming usage. Finally, a perk that wasn't simply more damage was on top.

Shortly after the incredible success of Incandescent, we received the last of the elemental trio with Voltshot for Arc 3.0 (Destabilizing Rounds for Void 3.0 is too foul to deserve its own paragraph). Once again, we were given a perk that was more complex than simply dealing more damage. Voltshot enabled a weapon to jolt its next victim if you reloaded after a kill, which was a very potent effect. Voltshot was just as popular, if not more, than Incandescent, and remains the best choice on most primary weapons that can roll with it.

Something interesting that nobody talks about during this era was the steady removal of the traditional third column reload perk. Calus Mini-Tool, the most prominent Incandescent weapon, had only Threat Detector as its best third column option. Not horrible, but also notably worse than Subsistence (found on Funnelweb and Submission just one season earlier). The Ikelos SMG with Voltshot, had Feeding Frenzy, which was also a subpar perk at the time. The community loved these weapons for their powerful fourth column perks, enough to tolerate the bad reload times forced upon them by subpar third column perks. Around the same time, Frenzy began appearing on more and more weapons, covering both reload speed and damage, and giving the third column more room to breathe. This allowed Demolitionist, a perk too weak for the fourth column, to gain some traction in the practically uncontested third column when paired with Frenzy.

The final chapter of this story begins with the introduction of the BRAVE Arsenal, which turned power creep into power leap. Multiple top option weapons were blasted to smithereens by the new weapons, which featured many previous fourth column perks in their third column. Firefly was now in the third column on Midnight Coup, which gave it the potent combination of Firefly/Frenzy. Kinetic Tremors was now in the third column on Blast Furnace, creating the monstrous Kinetic Tremors/Frenzy combination that I believe to be the best primary kinetic weapon in the game. The most underrated new weapon was Luna's Howl, which received Heal Clip/Incandescent, putting it firmly above Zaouli's Bane as the new top solar hand cannon. But the fun didn't end there. 

With the release of Salvations Edge, the floodgates were now open. The barrier between the perk columns was already broken, and the raid weapons held nothing back. The new Chaos Reshaped perk was practically an upgraded version of Frenzy, an already powerful perk. Imminence was the first primary to feature Slice, and combined with Chaos Reshaped it became the new best kinetic slot primary. Non-denouement featured Voltshot on a bow for the first time, along with Dragonfly in the third column, creating another reigning champion of a primary weapon in the energy slot. But the worst offender of all has to be Nullify. Not since Cataclysmic and Forbearance has there been a weapon so disrespectful to perk design. It has every single perk a solar pulse rifle could possibly want: Heal Clip, Demolitionist, Subsistence, and Firefly in the third column, Chaos Reshaped and Incandescent in the fourth column. This pulse rifle has covered every niche so thoroughly that Bungie cannot make a better solar pulse rifle without fabricating yet another insane perk.

I think we're very close to reaching another critical mass of weapon perks. As I hinted at earlier, this isn't the first time we've gotten to this point. Forbearance and Cataclysmic suffocated the design space of all future weapons of their archetype. Forbearance was so incredibly popular because of Chain Reaction that the community wouldn't touch any other special grenade launcher, even after the perk was nerfed (and the true source of its effectiveness was partially because of its origin trait, as indicated by Tusk of the Boar's utter lack of attention). Cataclysmic simply featured the best possible perks a linear fusion could get: Fourth Time's the Charm is the best ammo generating perk in the game, and Bait and Switch provided an enormous damage boost without the need for a kill. To be fair, BnS was buffed after the raid released, but still, the gun's perks were perfect. It was literally impossible for a better linear fusion to be made without a drastic change. And guess what? The very next season, we got Stormchaser, the first member of the new Aggressive Frame linear fusion rifles. 

In conclusion: Bungie has no idea what they've done with their latest release, and power leap is going to turn into a power blastoff if they don't address this.