---
layout: ../../layouts/MarkdownPostLayout.astro
title: "Why Forsaken is the Best Expansion"
pubDate: 2024-09-22
description: 'Talking about what is and isn't necessary for an expansion to be considered good, including my opinion on what the ideal expansion looks like.'
tags: ["Discussion"]
---
Destiny 2's expansions have varied greatly in community reception over the years. Forsaken and Witch Queen are probably the best expansions, although each person's ranking may vary based on what criteria they use to judge each one. For me, an expansion's goals can be split into two categories: new systems and new content. New systems refer to broad changes across the entire game; these are usually felt outside of the content specifically introduced by the expansion (e.g. Lightfall's Overcharge/Surge activity modifiers, Witch Queen's weapon crafting, Shadowkeep's introduction of champions). New content is everything else: new weapons and armor, new subclasses, new destination, new campaign, etc. There might be a lot more stuff in that second category, but I think the first category is equally important when assessing the quality of an expansion. A good expansion should enhance the game as a whole.

With that being said, I'll explain why I think the best expansion is Forsaken. First of all, Forsaken arrived at a low point in the game's history. You could definitely say that Forsaken's quality is inflated because there were simply so many obvious problems with the game that it had the opportunity to fix, but I'll counter with the fact that the game has never really gotten close to being perfect. There have always been problems in every era, even the ones that people remember fondly, and each expansion has an opportunity to address them. There are two massive problems that Forsaken fixed: static rolls and double primary. This is already a huge accomplishment, and it's hard to understate how important these changes were to the future of the game. Fixing either of these problems is already a significant improvement to the game, perhaps greater than any other expansion.

But Forsaken did much more than just fix existing problems. It introduced two new destinations: the Tangled Shore and the Dreaming City. I was never a huge fan of destinations, since I don't find any satisfaction in searching for collectibles or hunting triumphs, but even I had to admit that the Dreaming City was not only a beautiful destination but also packed with content. But the Dreaming City was also home to Last Wish, an excellent raid at the time (albeit with some questionable Day One balance) and an entirely new 3 person endgame activity: The Shattered Throne, Destiny's first dungeon. Both of these activities are a joke nowadays, but back then they were legitimately challenging and rewarding to complete. 