---
layout: ../../layouts/MarkdownPostLayout.astro
title: "Why Forsaken is the Best Expansion"
pubDate: 2024-09-22
description: "Talking about the strengths of Forsaken and why it's the best expansion."
tags: ["Discussion"]
---
Destiny 2's expansions have varied greatly in community reception over the years. Forsaken and Witch Queen are probably the best expansions, although each person's ranking may vary based on what criteria they use to judge each one. For me, an expansion's goals can be split into two categories: new systems and new content. New systems refer to broad changes across the entire game; these are usually felt outside of the content specifically introduced by the expansion (e.g. Lightfall's Overcharge/Surge activity modifiers, Witch Queen's weapon crafting, Shadowkeep's introduction of champions). New content is everything else: new weapons and armor, new subclasses, new destination, new campaign, etc. There might be a lot more stuff in that second category, but I think the first category is equally important when assessing the quality of an expansion. A good expansion should enhance the game as a whole.

With that being said, I'll explain why I think the best expansion is Forsaken. First of all, Forsaken arrived at a low point in the game's history. You could definitely say that Forsaken's quality is inflated because there were simply so many obvious problems with the game that it had the opportunity to fix, but I'll counter with the fact that the game has never really gotten close to being perfect. There have always been problems in every era, even the ones that people remember fondly, and each expansion has an opportunity to address them. There are two massive problems that Forsaken fixed: static rolls and double primary. This is already a huge accomplishment, and it's hard to understate how important these changes were to the future of the game. Fixing either of these problems is already a significant improvement to the game, perhaps greater than any other expansion.

But Forsaken did much more than just fix existing problems. It introduced two new destinations: the Tangled Shore and the Dreaming City. I was never a huge fan of destinations, since I don't find any satisfaction in searching for collectibles or hunting triumphs, but even I had to admit that the Dreaming City was not only a beautiful destination but also packed with content. But the Dreaming City was also home to Last Wish, an excellent raid at the time (albeit with some questionable Day One balance) and an entirely new 3 person endgame activity: The Shattered Throne, Destiny's first dungeon. Both of these activities are a joke nowadays, but back then they were legitimately challenging and rewarding to complete. 

Finally, Forsaken introduced the new middle tree subclasses. All 9 subclasses at the time received an entirely new tree, with new perks and a new super in almost every case. Many modern staples came from Forsaken, although most of them weren't as powerful as they are now. Now, new subclass stuff is always fun to experiment with, but I'm not going to pretend that these shipped in a balanced state. Some of the subclasses were hilariously overpowered, to the point where the developers had to change how they design content to account for them. The primary culprits were the new supers. For example, Well of Radiance was both healing and damage at the same time, making Ward of Dawn completely irrelevant. Blade Barrage and Chaos Reach provided incredible burst damage. Beyond the supers themselves, many exotics were capable of refunding a hilarious amount of super energy (Orpheus Rig, Shards of Galanor, Phoenix Protocol, Skull of Dire Ahamkara) letting you spam supers practically endlessly. These new subclass trees were fun and novel, but there's no denying that they were horribly balanced.

The final thing that Forsaken gave us was... Gambit. Gambit has never been balanced in the game's history, but Forsaken was definitely not its best iteration. Teams melting Primevals with stacks of Chaos Reach, getting unlimited heavy ammo with Taken Armaments, Queenbreaker having the most generous aim assist in gaming history... it was bad. It was clear that this game mode was being tested and developed under the assumption that you'd be playing against average players, and didn't account for the degree of optimization that was possible with the new sandbox. This is definitely a case of wasted potential, but at the very least, you don't have to play it outside of a few specific quests (ahem Malfeasance). So, as bad as Gambit is, playing it is a choice.

Something Forsaken isn't praised enough for is its lack of power creep in weapons. Yes, many new weapons were very powerful, like Ace of Spades and Go Figure, but there were plenty of old weapons that were still viable. Forsaken didn't really introduce any super crazy new perks, which contributed greatly to this. Maybe there was so much new stuff (random rolls, new archetypes, a whole new weapon type in bows) that they felt they didn't need to do any power creep. Either way it's something that should be praised more, especially when compared to... other expansions.